Updates to GHCP app mod (#52881)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/porting/github-copilot-app-modernization/troubleshooting.md

**Cause:** The agent doesn't recognize the workspace as a .NET project.

**Solution:**

1. Ensure the workspace root contains a `.sln`, `.csproj`, or `.vbproj` file.
1. Ask the agent: _"What solution or project file are you using?"_
1. If your solution or project file is in a subdirectory, open that directory as the workspace root or point the agent to the file explicitly.

### Agent can't resume previous work

**Cause:** The `.github/upgrades/` folder, where the agent stores all its state, is missing or corrupted.

**Solution:**

1. Check if the `.github/upgrades/` folder exists in your repo root.
1. If the folder was accidentally deleted, start the scenario fresh. The agent can't recover without its state files.
1. If the folder exists but files appear corrupted, ask the agent to _"re-assess and re-plan"_ to regenerate them.

> [!TIP]
> Commit the `.github/upgrades/` folder to your branch so it's preserved across sessions and machines.

### Tasks stuck in progress

**Cause:** The previous session ended while the agent was mid-task.

**Solution:**

1. The agent auto-detects stale tasks in most cases. Tell the agent _"resume"_ or _"restart the current task."_

> 1. If the stuck state persists, tell the agent to _"mark the current task as pending and restart it"_ or _"re-assess and continue from the last completed step."_

Reviewer: I would change all occurrences of "re-assess" to "reassess".

1. Check the corresponding `progress-details.md` file for the task to understand where the previous session stopped.

### Agent keeps suggesting the wrong scenario

**Cause:** The agent's analysis picked up unexpected project characteristics and inferred a different scenario than you intended.

**Solution:**

Be explicit about what you want. Instead of _"upgrade my project,"_ say:

- _"I want to upgrade to .NET 10."_
- _"I want to migrate from Newtonsoft.Json to System.Text.Json."_
- _"Convert my project to SDK-style format."_

Also add scenario preferences to `scenario-instructions.md` to prevent future mismatches.

## Build and compilation issues

These issues relate to build failures, NuGet restore problems, and code generation errors.

### Build fails after agent's changes

> **Cause:** Upgrades can introduce breaking API changes, missing packages, or incompatible code patterns.

Reviewer: Should we link to the breaking changes TOC here?

**Solution:**

1. Commit or stash your pending changes before starting a scenario.
1. Verify Git is initialized: run `git status` in the workspace root.
1. If a branch with the agent's intended name already exists, delete the existing branch or ask the agent to use a different branch name.

### Undo all agent changes

**Cause:** The upgrade didn't go as planned and you want to start over.

**Solution:**

1. Switch back to your original branch: `git checkout main` (or whatever your base branch is).
1. The agent's working branch contains all changes isolated from your main branch.
1. To remove the agent's branch entirely: `git branch -D <agent-branch-name>`.
1. To keep some changes, cherry-pick specific commits: `git cherry-pick <commit-hash>`.

> [!TIP]
> The agent makes granular commits per task, so you can selectively keep the changes that worked.

## Performance issues

These issues relate to upgrade speed and assessment duration.

### Agent is slow or takes a long time

**Cause:** Large solutions with many projects, complex dependency graphs, or numerous breaking changes naturally take longer.

**Solution:**

> 1. For very large solutions (50+ projects), consider upgrading in batches. Group related projects and upgrade them together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For very large solutions (50+ projects), consider upgrading in batches. Group related projects and upgrade them together.
```

### Assessment takes very long

**Cause:** The assessment analyzes every project's dependencies, NuGet packages, target frameworks, and applicable breaking changes. For large solutions, the assessment naturally takes longer.

**Solution:**

1. Long assessment times are normal for large solutions. No action needed.
1. Monitor progress in the **Output** panel (select **AppModernizationExtension** from the dropdown in Visual Studio).
1. The assessment only runs once per scenario. Subsequent phases use the cached results.

## Customization issues

These issues relate to custom skills and scenario instruction files.

### Custom skill isn't picked up

> **Cause:** The skill file is in the wrong location, has missing or invalid metadata, or the skill format is incorrect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cause:** The skill file is in the wrong location or has missing or invalid metadata, or the skill format is incorrect.
```

**Solution:**

1. Verify the skill file is in one of the supported locations:
   - `.github/skills/` (repository-level, team-wide)
   - `.github/upgrades/skills/` (scenario-level)
   - `%UserProfile%/.copilot/skills/` (user-level, personal)
1. Check that the skill metadata includes at least `name` and `description` fields.
1. Ensure the `discovery` field (if set) is one of: `lazy`, `preload`, or `scenario`.
1. Verify the skill's `description` matches the kind of task you expect it to apply to. The agent uses description matching to select skills.

### Changes to scenario-instructions.md don't take effect

> **Cause:** The agent might not re-read the file mid-session, or your edits are in the wrong section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cause:** The agent might not reread the file midsession, or your edits are in the wrong section.
```

**Solution:**

> 1. Ask the agent to _"reload instructions"_ or start a new chat session to force a re-read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ask the agent to _"reload instructions"_ or start a new chat session to force a reread.
```

**Solution:**

1. Commit or stash your pending changes before starting a scenario.
1. Verify Git is initialized: run `git status` in the workspace root.
1. If a branch with the agent's intended name already exists, delete the existing branch or ask the agent to use a different branch name.

### Undo all agent changes

**Cause:** The upgrade didn't go as planned and you want to start over.

**Solution:**

1. Switch back to your original branch: `git checkout main` (or whatever your base branch is).
1. The agent's working branch contains all changes isolated from your main branch.
1. To remove the agent's branch entirely: `git branch -D <agent-branch-name>`.
1. To keep some changes, cherry-pick specific commits: `git cherry-pick <commit-hash>`.

> [!TIP]
> The agent makes granular commits per task, so you can selectively keep the changes that worked.

## Performance issues

These issues relate to upgrade speed and assessment duration.

### Agent is slow or takes a long time

**Cause:** Large solutions with many projects, complex dependency graphs, or numerous breaking changes naturally take longer.

**Solution:**

> 1. Be patient. The agent works project-by-project and validates each change with builds.

Reviewer 2: tone
